hi hey what's going on
good to meet you good to meet you too
um yeah where do i start um
you can call me flo perfect bro uh
we've talked before i was on one of your
um
porn addiction streams a while back ah
good to see you again thank you good to
speak to you again
um so my age is 22
and i'm a software engineer in germany
and my question was how do i tell my
parents
that i was suicidal as a kid and
that i'm currently fighting depression
basically without hurting them or
blaming them
for like
what happened to me um
do you blame them for what happened to
you
i think that yeah a part of my
how i was brought up definitely plays a
role in it
like yeah i i blame them
i mean like i see them as flawed people
but i think some of their actions
yeah make me who i am i think
if that makes sense so
okay if you want i can
give you like a background
okay so uh i i do want a background but
just in a moment are you watching stream
uh i closed it good give me just one
moment
okay sure okay so why don't you tell me
a little bit
about um
you know what so help me understand a
little bit about
your you wanna um you wanna talk to your
family about
you want to share you want to tell your
parents that you're suicidal and you're
depressed
right and you're having difficult but
you want to share it in a way that
prevents them from
feeling blamed yes
so
yeah so tell me a little bit more so
basically um so my family situation
parents are still together um i have a
sister
an older one and um
my parents weren't really like an
emotional support
when i grew up so they were like really
distant we never talked about how we
felt
um and
they would usually like show their life
through like financial support
okay and um
like my mom is like pretty dominant and
actually thinks like um that people
that go and do therapy are basically
crazy
and um that it's pretty uncommon to
go to therapy so she has like a bias a
strong wise about that
and my dad is like a lot more
approachable but
very passive and
basically i never shared
that i am in therapy with them or that i
was depressed
because i'm afraid of their reaction and
um they
found out a while ago that my sister
is in therapy and their reaction was
kind of scary as well
like first of all they're really
confused what
happened to her or why she
is in therapy because she's so distant
that she
doesn't want to talk about it and
now i feel like this might be the right
time to open up to them
and although we never talk about
emotions like
um
yeah just just kind of i kind of want
want some relief
from being able to tell them how i
really feel if they ask me
like like we we meet from time to times
we don't live together anymore
and if they ask me how i'm doing i'm not
telling them if i had like a really bad
day
for example so and why don't you tell
them that you have a bad day
um because it would usually lead into
i had like lots of anxiety today and
i'm working on xyz
through my therapy and then i would just
open up like the whole
thing so what i'm hearing is that you um
and by the way just to clarify are we
showing your face or not
because i know you're on a video call i
however you want i don't i don't mind
okay let me just go to
our interview screen then okay so
um so are we
showing faces
someone else joined the channel but i
don't know uh
wait can they hear the ping i'm sorry
yeah that they can't it's okay though i
i mean i guess i have the notification
on it's okay
um so flo let's just think a little bit
about so on the one hand
this is what i'm hearing the first thing
is that you've been struggling with some
of these issues of
depression and suicidality for a while
it sounds like your parents won't be
very
open to hearing that and so what i'm
hearing
is that you're essentially carrying this
burden kind of on your own
and it's not that you expect your
parents to really fix it for you but
that
you're afraid of their judgment um and
and i think that you know the people
that we love we just
you know we want them to support us
you know even if it's not like in a big
way like at least emotionally i mean you
want to tell
your parents what you're going through
but you're afraid of how they're going
to react so you're not
and this is where things get really
tricky because like not only are you
trying to
you know avoid their judgment that but
there's also a part of you that is
um you know afraid that
they did have some role in it and that
they won't
respond very well to like that idea
is what i'm hearing so in a weird way
um you know they're you're almost kind
of protecting them by keeping it from
them
but you're carrying an extra heavy
burden because of that in a weird way
does that make sense
yes that that yeah applies
so so let me so there
so there are a couple of principles at
play here but first i'm going to just
answer your question and then i'm going
to share one or two principles okay so i
think the way that you tell them
is just like that so you just say mom
dad i just you know there's some there's
a part of my life that i haven't really
shared with you very much because i've
been afraid of your judgment
and you know i was suicidal when i was
younger and i've been struggling with
depression
a lot like my sister for a couple of
years now
and i just wanted y'all to know now
there are a couple of important pieces
there so one is like your expectation
about the conversation is going to be a
lot of your suffering
okay so you know who your parents are
and it can be sad but
try to let go of that expectation and
you know i do think that it is possible
to get to a place where your parents can
support you
and i think the most important part is
the next part
which is that the first conversation
shouldn't be one where you're sharing a
lot of information it should be one
where you're asking a few questions
if you can manage it and i would start
with the question
what's your understanding of what
depression is
like when i say that i was suicidal and
i've been depressed for years like what
does that mean to you
and listen to what they have to say
and be aware that you know part of their
defensiveness may be a sense of blame
like they may be like blaming themselves
and their ego arises in response to that
so like i know it's really hard but i
don't know that they're gonna be in a
place to listen it just sort of depends
but if you're wondering how you have
that first conversation
i think being honest about it being
simple like it's like one or two
sentences it's not a whole lot of
explanation
it's not a whole lot of excuses it's not
a whole lot of it's not your fault where
really they do have something
like you know you can you can get down
that that road later
um but i'd say you know two or three
sentences and then what does that mean
to you
and then really listen to them
um how does that sound um
yeah i think um it sounds good
it sounds like a like i didn't think
about
um kind of asking
them for their understanding of what i'm
going through so
but i yeah
like you you um said something about
expectation
which is like my expectation right now
is that
they really don't know
what depression really is like they
have like
not a lot of knowledge about mental
health in general
so that's and i got that impression as
well from
seeing their reaction to finding out
that my sister
is in therapy so
yeah so i gotta let go of the
expectation yeah so but let's talk about
the expectation for a second what do you
um what do you feel like
how does it how do you feel knowing that
they're not going to respond to you
or imagining they won't respond to you
with like support
that's really hard um
it kind of adds to the general sense i
have when i'm with my parents which is
lots of times like feeling worthless so
it's like
such a big step to tell them about it
and if they
don't care then or they
like i i know that my mom for a fact
will tell me that
there's probably something wrong with me
and i am
i have caused my suffering which is
true to some extent but um
kind of not what you want to hear in
that situation so it's um
yep yeah it's just it's just um
i feel really sad right now thinking
about it
because it's like they don't care yep i
i i know exactly how you feel man
um i think it can be really really
challenging
um and so what we're going to try to do
is
like so this is where flo i think so it
sounds like you do have a therapist
right
yes okay so i think you know you should
definitely lean on them
but i i think there are a couple things
that i i want to kind of share with you
one is that
you know so it's that attitude so
somewhere along the way
you were sort of taught that you're to
blame
yeah right so so if we look at it's i'm
gonna just take a step back and
explain something so sigmund freud um
conceptualized depression as anger
turned against the self
and so you blame yourself for everything
like
you know your mom and like if we think
about where did you learn how to blame
yourself like unfortunately a lot of
times we learn from our parents
and sorry yeah go ahead
um i i was on like the
um the healthy gamer coaching
like the free coaching for a while and
it's something that i talked to adam
about a lot
and he he actually asked me like what
did your
parents tell you that
could lead to the self of like self
worth that you have right now
and something they always told me was
basically since growing up
like when you were born we had to move
out of our bedroom in order to make
plays for you
and like this is not your bedroom it's
ours but we made space for you so i was
kind of already blame
blamed for being born because i was
always
it was already a burden for them because
they had to leave their room
so yeah yeah that's that's
it does go deep and and what i'm hearing
is that even in this conversation
you're taking over a part of their
peaceful mental household too
they have this beautiful house built in
their head of what their what their life
is like and what their children's life
is like
and it's pretty imperfect and you know
you're occupying the space that you're
supposed to occupy
and by telling them this what you're
gonna do is
move into their spare bedroom that
wasn't the life that they
built right and how does it feel
to go
take space that isn't yours
um she's really bad
yeah um right so what i want you to
understand so now comes
the good part but also the hard part is
that flow these
these thoughts that you have are like
they're like a
parrot that is just repeating what it's
heard
right these are your parents thoughts
they're not actually a measure of your
value like they're not
you know they're not true they're just
like echoes
and so i think that that process and
this is where you know if we want to be
a little bit
forgiving so i think one way to move
forward here is to forgive
but in order to forgive you have to
blame them first
right and this is where the tricky part
comes in whereas like if you can never
move past it if it's not like if you
don't blame them
you can't forgive them because i
certainly did a number on you i think
everyone's aware of that
yeah and and so i'm not saying you have
to forgive them right away but i think
that like you know if you say they don't
understand mental health and stuff like
understand that
their response to you sure there's
some stuff that you know we can blame
them for but some of that is like they
may just not understand mental health
and so i think the first conversation is
sort of like a conversation about hey
here's what i'm going through
what's your understanding of it because
in your mind
a lot of the fears that you have are
fair a lot of the blame that you have is
fair
a lot of the ways that they make you
feel like you don't belong here
right so i'm imagining that you're
pulling them into a conversation where
they don't want to be
and you're kind of inconveniencing them
by having it
so there's all of that which is like a
some scar and then there's also the
mental health stigma
which is actually has nothing to do with
you and nothing to do with them it's
just if they haven't learned it
and so you're gonna fight be fighting
two battles one is sort of a more
traditional one and one is like this
mental health stigma battle
and this is where i i encourage you to
you know lean on your therapist
lean on us welcome back it's good to see
you again
thank you um and and you know we're
we're here to help you and you have a
lot of people
in your life who do care about you who
want you to be here
who enjoy seeing you um i love to see
you again i think it's fantastic that
you're back
um you know i wish you know at some
point i'd like to talk about happier
things but i'm i'm more than happy to
talk about this right now because
we meet people where they're at right
and what you've got to do is meet peop
meet your parents where they're at
that's hard man i'm sorry
yeah it's um yeah i just i just really
hope that i
i'll feel at least some relief
so my hope is that the relief that
you're gonna feel is one of like
detachment where you can't really
control the people that they are
you can just take the first step of the
journey like
you just because the journey isn't gonna
wind up where you want it to go
doesn't mean that you shouldn't take
that first step
and what i want you to do is take that
first step and like
you know it's going to be a step in the
right direction it may not go the way
that you want to
and you hopefully still have you know
years
if not a decade or two to get to a place
where you're you know you can educate
your parents and they can support you
and hopefully you can kind of come out
of that depression a little bit and
explain to them
so take take the first step even though
it sounds really scary
sounds like it's meeting your some scar
head on
yeah i i kind of decided to
talk to my dad first because i think he
is a lot more approachable with that so
i
he will he'll come over tomorrow so it's
um oh wow
yeah okay well good luck to you man
yeah thank you yeah okay
thank you so much for having me you're
very welcome hope to hear again
you know